hybrid-headless-react-plugin/README.md, before:

# Hybrid Headless React Plugin for WordPress

## Overview

The Hybrid Headless React Plugin is a sophisticated WordPress plugin that enables a hybrid headless architecture, combining the power of WordPress/WooCommerce with modern frontend frameworks like Next.js. This plugin serves as the crucial bridge between your WordPress backend and headless frontend, offering a unique approach where some routes are served headlessly while maintaining traditional WordPress functionality for authenticated flows.

## Features

### 1. Smart Route Handling
- Automatically detects and routes requests between headless and traditional WordPress paths
- Configurable route patterns for maximum flexibility
- Maintains WordPress functionality for critical paths (`/wp-admin`, `/my-account`, etc.)
- Seamless integration with WooCommerce checkout and cart processes
- Proxies specific routes to Next.js:
  - `/` (root)
  - `/categories/`
  - `/category/`
  - `/trips/`
  - `/trip/`
  - `/route-descriptions/`
  - `/_next/` (Next.js static assets)

### 2. Advanced API Integration
- Custom REST API endpoints optimized for headless frontends
- Complete WooCommerce product data exposure
- Real-time stock level management
- Secure authentication handling
- CORS support with configurable origins

### 3. Performance Optimization
- Static file serving for Next.js assets
- Intelligent caching headers
- Optimized API responses
- Minimal database queries
- Support for CDN integration

### 4. Developer-Friendly
- Clear documentation and code structure
- Extensive hooks and filters
- Debugging tools and logging
- PHPUnit test suite included
- Easy local development setup

## Requirements

### Minimum Requirements
- PHP 7.4 or higher
- WordPress 5.8 or higher
- WooCommerce 5.0 or higher
- MySQL 5.7 or higher

### Recommended
- PHP 8.0 or higher
- WordPress 6.0 or higher
- WooCommerce 6.0 or higher
- Redis or Memcached for caching

## Installation

### Standard Installation
1. Download the plugin zip file
2. Go to WordPress admin → Plugins → Add New
3. Click "Upload Plugin" and select the zip file
4. Click "Install Now" and then "Activate"

### Composer Installation
```bash
composer require hybrid-headless/react-plugin
```

### Manual Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-repo/hybrid-headless-react-plugin.git
   ```
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```
3. Build the plugin:
   ```bash
   composer run build
   ```

## Configuration

### Basic Setup
1. Navigate to Settings → Hybrid Headless in WordPress admin
2. Configure the following essential settings:
   - Frontend URL
   - Build Path
   - Homepage Handling
   - Route Patterns
   - Frontend Proxy

### Route Proxying Configuration

The plugin can be configured to either proxy frontend routes to Next.js or only provide API functionality.

#### Via WordPress Admin
1. Navigate to Settings → Hybrid Headless
2. Find the "Enable Frontend Proxy" setting
3. Check/uncheck the box to enable/disable route proxying
4. Save changes

#### Via WP-CLI
Enable route proxying:
```bash
wp hybrid-headless proxy enable
```

Disable route proxying:
```bash
wp hybrid-headless proxy disable
```

When proxying is disabled, the plugin will continue to provide API functionality but won't intercept and proxy frontend routes to Next.js. This is useful when you want to:
- Use the plugin only for its API capabilities
- Debug routing issues
- Temporarily disable frontend proxying without deactivating the entire plugin

### Advanced Configuration
Create a `hybrid-headless-config.php` file in your wp-content directory:

```php
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_FRONTEND_URL', 'https://your-frontend.com');
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_DEBUG', true);
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_CACHE_TTL', 3600);
```

## Usage

### Route Handling
The plugin automatically handles routing based on the configured patterns:

```php
// Add custom frontend route
add_filter('hybrid_headless_frontend_routes', function($routes) {
    $routes['custom'] = '/custom-path/{slug}';
    return $routes;
});
```

### API Extensions
Add custom API endpoints:

```php
add_action('rest_api_init', function() {
    register_rest_route('hybrid-headless/v1', '/custom', [
        'methods' => 'GET',
        'callback' => 'your_custom_callback',
        'permission_callback' => '__return_true'
    ]);
});
```

### Frontend Integration
Example Next.js API call:

```javascript
const response = await fetch('${wordpressUrl}/wp-json/hybrid-headless/v1/products', {
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    }
});
```

## Development

### Local Development Setup
1. Set up a local WordPress installation
2. Clone the plugin repository
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```
4. Run the development build:
   ```bash
   composer run build-dev
   ```

### Running Tests
```bash
composer run test
```

### Debugging
Enable debug mode in wp-config.php:
```php
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_DEBUG', true);
```

Debug logs are stored in `wp-content/debug.log`

## Common Issues & Solutions

### CORS Issues
1. Verify your frontend URL is correctly set in the plugin settings
2. Check for any security plugins blocking API requests
3. Ensure proper headers are being sent from your frontend

### 404 Errors
1. Flush WordPress permalinks
2. Verify route patterns in plugin settings
3. Check .htaccess configuration

### Performance Issues
1. Enable object caching
2. Optimize database queries
3. Configure CDN for static assets

## Support & Contributing

### Getting Support
- Create an issue in the GitHub repository
- Check the [documentation](docs/README.md)
- Join our [community Slack](https://your-slack.com)

### Contributing
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests: `composer run test`
5. Submit a pull request

### Documentation
Full documentation is available in the [docs](docs/README.md) directory:
- [API Reference](docs/api.md)
- [Hooks Reference](docs/hooks.md)
- [Frontend Integration](docs/frontend.md)

## License
This project is licensed under the GPL v2 or later.

## Credits
Developed and maintained by [Your Company/Name]
Special thanks to all contributors!

## Changelog

### 1.0.0 (2024-01-01)
- Initial release
- Basic route handling
- WooCommerce integration
- Next.js asset serving

### 1.1.0 (2024-02-01)
- Added custom route patterns
- Improved caching
- Enhanced API responses

### 1.2.0 (2024-03-01)
- Updated route handling to include `/categories/`, `/category/`, `/trips/`, `/trip/`, `/route-descriptions/`, and `/` (root)
- Removed debugging code
- Improved documentation

### 1.2.1 (2024-03-02)
- Added proper handling of `/_next/` routes for Next.js static assets
- Improved 404 error handling
- Updated documentation for route handling

Commit message:

feat: Update README with enhanced route handling, API features, and caching details

hybrid-headless-react-plugin/README.md, after:

# Hybrid Headless React Plugin for WordPress

## Overview

The Hybrid Headless React Plugin is a sophisticated WordPress plugin that enables a hybrid headless architecture, combining the power of WordPress/WooCommerce with modern frontend frameworks like Next.js. This plugin serves as the crucial bridge between your WordPress backend and headless frontend, offering a unique approach where some routes are served headlessly while maintaining traditional WordPress functionality for authenticated flows.

## Features

### 1. Smart Route Handling
- Configurable proxy functionality that can be enabled/disabled via admin UI or WP-CLI
- Automatically detects and routes requests between headless and traditional WordPress paths
- Configurable route patterns for maximum flexibility
- Maintains WordPress functionality for critical paths (`/wp-admin`, `/my-account`, etc.)
- Seamless integration with WooCommerce checkout and cart processes
- Proxies specific routes to Next.js when enabled:
  - `/` (root)
  - `/categories/`
  - `/category/`
  - `/trips/`
  - `/trip/`
  - `/route-descriptions/`
  - `/_next/` (Next.js static assets)

### 2. Advanced API Integration
- Custom REST API endpoints optimized for headless frontends
- Complete WooCommerce product data exposure
- Real-time stock level management
- Secure authentication handling
- CORS support with configurable origins
- Cached responses with configurable TTLs
- Automatic cache invalidation on updates

### 3. Performance Optimization
- Static file serving for Next.js assets
- Intelligent caching headers
- Optimized API responses
- Minimal database queries
- Support for CDN integration

### 4. Developer-Friendly
- Clear documentation and code structure
- Extensive hooks and filters
- Debugging tools and logging
- PHPUnit test suite included
- Easy local development setup

## Requirements

### Minimum Requirements
- PHP 7.4 or higher
- WordPress 5.8 or higher
- WooCommerce 5.0 or higher
- MySQL 5.7 or higher

### Recommended
- PHP 8.0 or higher
- WordPress 6.0 or higher
- WooCommerce 6.0 or higher
- Redis or Memcached for caching

## Installation

### Standard Installation
1. Download the plugin zip file
2. Go to WordPress admin → Plugins → Add New
3. Click "Upload Plugin" and select the zip file
4. Click "Install Now" and then "Activate"

### Composer Installation
```bash
composer require hybrid-headless/react-plugin
```

### Manual Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-repo/hybrid-headless-react-plugin.git
   ```
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```
3. Build the plugin:
   ```bash
   composer run build
   ```

## Configuration

### Basic Setup
1. Navigate to Settings → Hybrid Headless in WordPress admin
2. Configure the following essential settings:
   - Frontend URL
   - Build Path
   - Homepage Handling
   - Route Patterns
   - Frontend Proxy

### Route Proxying Configuration

The plugin can be configured to either proxy frontend routes to Next.js or only provide API functionality.

#### Via WordPress Admin
1. Navigate to Settings → Hybrid Headless
2. Find the "Enable Frontend Proxy" setting
3. Check/uncheck the box to enable/disable route proxying
4. Save changes

#### Via WP-CLI
Enable route proxying:
```bash
wp hybrid-headless proxy enable
```

Disable route proxying:
```bash
wp hybrid-headless proxy disable
```

When proxying is disabled, the plugin will continue to provide API functionality but won't intercept and proxy frontend routes to Next.js. This is useful when you want to:
- Use the plugin only for its API capabilities
- Debug routing issues
- Temporarily disable frontend proxying without deactivating the entire plugin

### Advanced Configuration
Create a `hybrid-headless-config.php` file in your wp-content directory:

```php
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_FRONTEND_URL', 'https://your-frontend.com');
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_DEBUG', true);
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_CACHE_TTL', 3600);
```

## Usage

### Route Handling
The plugin automatically handles routing based on the configured patterns:

```php
// Add custom frontend route
add_filter('hybrid_headless_frontend_routes', function($routes) {
    $routes['custom'] = '/custom-path/{slug}';
    return $routes;
});
```

### API Extensions
Add custom API endpoints:

```php
add_action('rest_api_init', function() {
    register_rest_route('hybrid-headless/v1', '/custom', [
        'methods' => 'GET',
        'callback' => 'your_custom_callback',
        'permission_callback' => '__return_true'
    ]);
});
```

### Frontend Integration
Example Next.js API call:

```javascript
const response = await fetch('${wordpressUrl}/wp-json/hybrid-headless/v1/products', {
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
    }
});
```

## Development

### Local Development Setup
1. Set up a local WordPress installation
2. Clone the plugin repository
3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```
4. Run the development build:
   ```bash
   composer run build-dev
   ```

### Running Tests
```bash
composer run test
```

### Debugging
Enable debug mode in wp-config.php:
```php
define('HYBRID_HEADLESS_DEBUG', true);
```

Debug logs are stored in `wp-content/debug.log`

## Common Issues & Solutions

### CORS Issues
1. Verify your frontend URL is correctly set in the plugin settings
2. Check for any security plugins blocking API requests
3. Ensure proper headers are being sent from your frontend

### 404 Errors
1. Flush WordPress permalinks
2. Verify route patterns in plugin settings
3. Check .htaccess configuration

### Performance Issues
1. Enable object caching
2. Optimize database queries
3. Configure CDN for static assets

## Support & Contributing

### Getting Support
- Create an issue in the GitHub repository
- Check the [documentation](docs/README.md)
- Join our [community Slack](https://your-slack.com)

### Contributing
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests: `composer run test`
5. Submit a pull request

### Documentation
Full documentation is available in the [docs](docs/README.md) directory:
- [API Reference](docs/api.md)
- [Hooks Reference](docs/hooks.md)
- [Frontend Integration](docs/frontend.md)

## License
This project is licensed under the GPL v2 or later.

## Credits
Developed and maintained by [Your Company/Name]
Special thanks to all contributors!

## Changelog

### 1.0.0 (2024-01-01)
- Initial release
- Basic route handling
- WooCommerce integration
- Next.js asset serving

### 1.1.0 (2024-02-01)
- Added custom route patterns
- Improved caching
- Enhanced API responses

### 1.2.0 (2024-03-01)
- Updated route handling to include `/categories/`, `/category/`, `/trips/`, `/trip/`, `/route-descriptions/`, and `/` (root)
- Removed debugging code
- Improved documentation

### 1.2.1 (2024-03-02)
- Added proper handling of `/_next/` routes for Next.js static assets
- Improved 404 error handling
- Updated documentation for route handling
